---
title:  "Python Algorithm Q12"
search: false
categories: 
  - python_algorithm
tags:
  - leetcode
  - code_review
  - python
  - english
  - dynamic_programming

excerpt: "Basic dynamic programming"
---

# Q12 Best Time to Buy and Sell Stock
___


## Q
You are given an array `prices` where `prices[i]` is the price of a given stock on the `ith` day.

You want to maximize your profit by choosing __a single day__ to buy one stock and choosing __a different day in the future__ to sell that stock.

Return the maximum profit you can achieve from this transaction. If you cannot achieve any profit, return `0`.

## Sample Input

Input: prices = [7,1,5,3,6,4]  
Output: 5  
Explanation: Buy on day 2 (price = 1) and sell on day 5 (price = 6), profit = 6-1 = 5.  
Note that buying on day 2 and selling on day 1 is not allowed because you must buy before you sell. 

Input: prices = [7,6,4,3,1]  
Output: 0  
Explanation: In this case, no transactions are done and the max profit = 0.

## Constraints
- 1 <= prices.length <= 10<sup>4</sup>
- 0 <= prices[i] <= 10<sup>4</sup>

## 1. My "TRY" == Given "TRY"
```py
class Solution:
    def maxProfit(self, prices: List[int]) -> int:
        max_price = 0
        
        for i in range(len(prices)-1):
            for j in range(i+1, len(prices)):
                max_price = max(max_price, prices[j] - prices[i])

        if max_price < 0:
            return 0

        return max_price

a = Solution()
s = [7, 1, 5, 3, 6, 4]
print(a.maxProfit(s))

#expected : 5
```
Using brute force cannot be the solution. Obviously, execution time will execeed the time limit(=O(n^2)). So better algo is required.

## 2. My Solution == Given Solution
```py
def maxProfit(self, prices: List[int]) -> int:
        max_price = 0 #max = -sys.maxsize
        min_val = prices[0] #min sys.maxsize

        for N in prices:
            min_val = min(min_val, N)
            max_price = max(max_price, N-min_val)

        return max_price
```
This answer focused on using the lowest point. Frankly speaking, I saw the diagram in the book. X-axis is idx of the input and Y-axis is the value. From this, you can think of this solution. Keep reminding min_val, then keep comparing previous max_price with current value - min_val.  

**sys.maxsize is from the module "sys". You can assign the largest value that system supports by using "sys.maxsize".

## Overall Review
Don't be so complicated. Think simply. Just keep searching the smallest one, then subtract it from current value, lastly compare it with previous max. That's it.  

Also visualization is the key point in solving this kind of problems. You can easily get the answer, only watching the diagram.
